[laid-back music playing]
we've been through
bit of a rough spot.
But things are starting
to pick back up again.
The economy is starting
to rebound.
Folks are out
and they're ready
to celebrate.
Demand's high
for premium liquor right now.
It's boom time for moonshine.
[narrator] on this season
of moonshiners...
[mark]
it's coming on good, chris,
let's put some grain in it.
People are working again,
they've got money to spend.
So I'm ready to do my part,
see that they have plenty
of spirits to celebrate with.
[henry] that's good.
There's more pots right here
than most moonshiners
could ever hope to cook
through in their life.
[digger] I'm taking
you to the shrine, boys.
[mark] oh, my god!
This is where you
and popcorn sutton
made his last brandy.
[mike] this is where
the infamous
popcorn sutton's from,
but it's mine and jerry's
turn now.
[mike] man,
look at the waterfall
in there.
-[henry] I like it.
-[mike] I do too.
Oh, I can see the fairy.
The green fairy,
that's it.
Changes right
before your eyes.
The mad scientist
came through again.
Then we got something out.
You make sure you get
between them
little toes there.
-[laughs]
-pretty good.
-Bigfoot moonshine.
-[laughs]
-you've been with me 12 years.
-Twelve years.
Keep up our anniversary date.
I didn't know
we had an anniversary.
[brian]
what's in the edibles barrel?
[josh] pineapple.
Wait, that says "non-edibles."
-is it sweet?
-Yeah, pretty good.
Burns hotter than a nanny goat
in a pepper patch,
picking six rows at a time.
-That's pretty damn hot.
-Don't splash that
on your leg.
Could be doing
the burnt sack boogie.
[laughs]
you done skinned a gator,
josh!
One thing's for sure.
My name's not good luck chuck.
-[tires screech]
-whoa!
God almighty!
Son of a bitch!
Burn it down!
[mike] okay, come on.
Let's get on up there.
It's like a crime scene.
You go back for that bastard.
That's when 90%
of the time you get caught.
The police is coming back
with a vengeance.
[police chief]
what's going on, fellas?
[officer 1]
check them barrels.
I'm gonna solder it
from the inside.
Oh, damn!
When it starts squeezing down,
slow down on it.
-Ahhh!
-Son of a bitch.
See, that pandemic,
it was like
the great depression.
Now that everybody
is coming out of it,
it's gonna be like
the roaring '20s
all over again.
[mark] this is how
we make the moonshine!
[narrator] as the icy shadow
of winter fades
and the last frost melts away,
a spirit of renewal
fills the vast expanse
of appalachia,
and like generations
before them,
moonshiners spring
into action.
[mark] here we are,
make us a little more
tennessee whiskey.
Oh, yeah.
Still around and pretty.
[narrator]
in cocke county, tennessee,
mark and digger return
to the limestone spring
that makes their outlaw
tennessee whiskey possible.
-[mark]
it's backed up a little.
-Yeah, let me get the shovel.
That'll bring it out there
once I shovel
that sediment up.
[mark] okay.
Damn.
Boy, getting older
ain't for sissies, is it?
No, it ain't.
During the winter months,
we rented a little
warehouse from a friend.
It's right next to the one
of the finest limestone
springs we know of.
[mark] if there's just a leak
right over here...
So, mark and I got to develop
this tennessee whiskey.
Everybody's wanting it,
so we're gonna run
hard with it.
Well, let's give that time
to clear up, let's go inside.
[mark] see what kind of mess
we got inside to clean up.
You know, last year
we cut our prices.
We were trying
to help folks out.
We stuck
with simple corn liquor
and sold a lot of it.
Sure am spooky in here.
[digger] this year,
things are better.
People are getting out
and they've got their pockets
full of money.
Everybody's wanting
to spend that money
on a premium liquor
and we're at a fever pitch
to make 'em some.
Do you hear anything,
you feel anything?
[digger] nope.
[mark] pretty good
ways over here.
[both] there we go.
We got to run this pump
for a few minutes
to clear out muddy sediment
and once we get clean water,
make us a little mash,
get ready to start making
little bit
of tennessee whiskey
mark and digger style.
[digger] that's still working.
[mark] yeah.
[digger]
three more barrels filled up,
that ought to be about right
and rotate them coming off
three or four at a time.
That'll be good. I mean,
I ain't greedy, but this year
is a lot different than
last year, people has got
a little money now.
Yeah, boy.
You know,
last year was a whole
different animal for us.
We were all about making
cheap liquor to what
people could afford it.
This year, we're going
to make top-shelf liquor
that we can charge
a premium price for.
Oh, it's ready to go,
ain't it?
It didn't get no mildew
or nothing.
We got enough grain here
to make one run of mash,
you think?
[digger] with that barrel
of white corn in my truck,
we're ready to rock and roll.
[mark] let's get
the pump and stuff first.
Get those drying.
Hello, fellas.
We had a pretty good winter.
For the first winter
you've ever had?
-[brian] yeah.
-You got a horseshoe
stuck in your ass.
[laughs]
[narrator] in polk county,
north carolina,
josh and his partner brian
are on the hunt
for the season's first harvest
of fresh berries,
so they can truck it
220 miles north.
I'll tell you what really
helped us was henry
and kenny and tickle.
You know, they...
They helped us a lot.
[josh] working with henry,
kenny and tickle
has been
one of the greatest things
that's ever happened for me.
[narrator] last winter...
[josh]
all right, boys, here it is.
[narrator] ...Josh hauled
eight submarine stills
to virginia...
Hell yeah!
There's a whole lot
of subs right here.
Whole lot of subs.
[narrator] ...To join forces
with tickle, henry and kenny
and capitalize on a windfall
of malted corn
for a big winter payday.
[josh] this year, we're going
to keep working with henry,
kenny and tickle.
We got these ginormous stills,
killer still setup,
but we're gonna
do something
a little bit different.
Well, last year, with you,
we basically only done grain.
With fruits coming in,
we can make
some high-end brandies
and we'll be able to charge
a little bit more for it.
Lord knows everybody's out
spending that money right now.
Last year was like
the great depression,
but this year,
people are making money.
Everything is just packed,
everywhere you go.
I got a lot of 'em down here.
Some strawberries
have come in.
We're going
to make some killer strawberry
brandy and...
How many strawberries
you got lined up?
Enough to run
all those stills, you know.
Hell, we're gonna have
damn arthritis
by the time we get done
cutting all them tops off.
[laughs]
[josh] right now, strawberries
have been in real high demand.
I've called
all over the place,
haven't been able to hardly
locate any quantity anywhere.
But our boy colt
come to the rescue.
We're here to pick 'em up.
What's up, man?
[colt] not much.
Staying out of trouble?
-Trying to.
-[laughs]
-[brian]
staying out of trouble.
-[josh] yeah.
-Show us what you got.
-[colt] ah, let me go get 'em.
[engine starting]
what do you think about these?
[josh] I'm excited.
-Hell yeah.
-[brian] oh, man,
they look good.
-They're perfect.
-[josh] all right.
If you don't mind,
we'll take this one barrel
in there first,
and then we'll put the bulk
of them on the truck.
Wait a minute.
They're not exactly perfect.
They're soft.
God,
that one there is rotten.
Some of them are just ripe,
and some of them are damn near
just plum rotten.
[brian] how long do you think
before these are mush?
Maybe a couple of hours,
maybe tonight, I mean...
Yeah. Some of them don't even
have hours, they're gone.
It ain't nothing for us
moonshiners
to use some overripe fruit.
But when you got to bring
it to virginia in the heat,
then there's black,
moldy spots all over 'em,
they're just not satisfactory.
The next time,
if you can hook us up
just before it gets
to that point,
that'd be great.
Henry, kenny and tickle,
they're totally expecting
strawberries,
but these strawberries
will not work.
If you got something else
in the future,
man, and it ain't quite ripe,
and we definitely... You've
got our number, hook us up.
I promised henry,
kenny and tickle
I was gonna get 'em
a huge load of strawberries.
Well, I'm a man of my word,
so I got to come up
with some fruit.
I got to deliver.
I'm about tired
of making corn liquor,
I want to make a big run
of something special,
you know.
[brian] I got you.
[laid-back music playing]
[mike] I tell you what, boy,
if it wasn't for knowing
how to plant
your own groceries,
man, we'd have starved
to death last year.
[narrator]
it's sevier county, tennessee.
After police paid a visit
to a stash house last winter,
mike is keeping a low profile
to avoid getting
caught in a sting operation.
[mike] we're talking over
a 150 gallons alcohol
in that barn.
When the law found
our stash house,
we went from wide open
to a dead stop.
-There's damn cops
up there, man.
-Holy damn.
-Just drive by.
-[bleep].
They're gonna get
our asses for sure now.
That's our whole damn
season gone to hell.
Ain't been back,
ain't made another dollar.
Ain't made no liquor.
Ain't sold nothing.
So what little bit
of pocket change I had
left over, is gone.
I've not even been back
to my still site.
I've been laying low,
staying at home, trying
to can up canned goods.
We can a little bit
of everything,
homemade barbecue sauces,
pepper relish, whole tomatoes.
We've just been relying
on what we got at home,
you know, to get by.
You know, me and jerry,
we hadn't made or sold
any liquor for months.
I'm broke as a joke right now.
[horn honks]
jerry.
Mikey-mikey, what's up, buddy?
Been laying low about you say.
-I know the feeling.
-Good to see you.
I don't know about you,
but I'm ready to get started.
We took a serious hit
last season.
Yeah, we did.
I don't know if I'm about
ready to get back
in the woods or not.
You haven't been back
to the still house, have you?
Ain't been no damn
where else.
Not to the still site,
the stash house, nothing.
I say we go down there
and check it out
and scope it out
and see what we can
come up with.
You think
it's been long enough?
[jerry]
if they found anything,
they've got it and gone.
And it's done and over with.
That's 150 gallons,
if it's still there,
we got a damn good start
to the season, you know.
It's against
my damn better judgment,
but if it is in there boy,
we'd have some money
in our pocket.
Damn right.
I got a damn notion
we ain't gonna
find nothing over there.
I hope like hell
that liquor is still there,
because if it is,
we're pretty much
where we left off,
you know,
we'll be in good shape.
But the law was there,
chances are that
liquor is gone,
unless they're just
waiting for us
to come back
so they can bust our asses.
Oh, boy,
I don't like this damn idea.
We just need to sit here
and scope this place out
a little bit.
I hope like hell, there ain't
nobody stirring around.
Should've brought a damn
roll of toilet paper.
We've got to go back
to that stash house,
we've got to see
for our own eyes
if anything's there or not.
But, you know, we're not
just gonna pull up
in the front damn door
and walk in.
We're gonna scope
this place out.
We're looking for activity
of any kind whatsoever.
We gotta watch for people,
come by and see our asses.
Oh, yeah.
Hmm.
I hope there ain't nobody up
on that damn bank up yonder.
I am a little paranoid,
but you got to be
if you're gonna be
in this business.
You think we ought to
just get out and see
what we can find out?
We're gonna hug the edges
of them bushes
right there by the creek,
slipp in there
on the back side.
A little bit more incognito.
-Might as well do it.
-Let's do it.
[mike]
wait here a minute, jerry...
It seems like
there's nobody around here,
but they could be hoarded up
inside that stash house
waiting for me
to unlock the door.
[jerry] is it just me
or has someone been
cleaning up in there?
Somebody has done
some cleaning up.
That whole hallway looks like
it's cleared up, gone.
Let's get on up there.
-[jerry] let's go for it.
-[mike] yeah.
[tense music playing]
[tense music continues]
[breathes heavily]
okay, jerry, nothing.
They took every damn
bit of it, buddy,
like I figured.
[jerry] holy cow.
-Nothing but dirt.
-The cops got it.
Somebody got it.
It ain't here.
We can spend
all damn day long
about who may have it,
but it's... It's theirs now.
But we got our answer
and I don't want to be
here no damn longer.
-Me neither.
-Let's go.
Damn.
[jerry] I tell you what,
they're pretty hot on us here.
[mike] oh, tell me about it.
[jerry] yeah, we haven't
been to the still site yet,
it may even be worse.
We ain't been
to the old still site
since the whole law incident,
but we left everything
over there.
I hope
everything's still there,
but it won't be our damn
still site no more,
that's for sure.
We'll go drop off this
old truck, get in our other...
And get her cleaned up
and move on.
You know,
a fresh start might be
a better start.
Maybe a blessing
in the damn skies.
[dramatic music playing]
[police chief speaking]
ah, nothing,
little spring cleaning.
[police chief speaking]
we don't know.
Everything was here
when we got here. It must be
some sort of water filter.
[officer 1 speaking]
[police chief speaking]
yeah, those are empty barrels.
[officer 2 speaking]
[police chief speaking]
-[mark] I understand.
-[police chief speaking]
yes, sir. Yes, sir.
[mark] fair enough.
[digger] son of a bitch.
This day didn't start
like I wanted it to.
[mark] no, but thank the lord,
it ain't tomorrow.
[digger] if it'd been
tomorrow, baby boy,
we'd have had
an allergic reaction.
We'd have broke out
in handcuffs.
As far as making liquor
goes right now,
there will be no liquor
made inside
the corporate city limits
in newport.
Now, are we going
to stop altogether?
Quitters, they have to
go to meetings,
we ain't quitters.
We're gonna get
the hell out of here,
and we ain't gonna look back.
[kenny speaking]
[henry speaking]
[narrator]
in franklin county, virginia,
after distilling
over 600 gallons
of malted corn liquor
in a friend's barn
last winter,
henry and kenny break down
the eight-still operation
to make the springtime
move back into the woods.
[sighs]
it's gonna be
very dangerous this year.
The law is getting out again,
so we got to move
to a new site.
We're gonna be able
to use it the whole season.
All right.
Wow, looks like
you boys are busy
already this morning.
Made a pile.
-[henry laughs]
-made a pile of money.
We're not staying
at this still site.
It's gonna be too much
traffic coming by
with these horses,
people cutting hay
and all that.
You know what?
I'm good at building,
but I can tell you something
about all the pieces,
ain't got a lot, do you?
Well, you know,
you set up eight subs,
takes three
or four days to set them up,
it takes 30 minutes
to tear them down.
[henry speaking]
[tickle] even though
I don't really want
to tear this still site down,
moonshiner's got to do
what a moonshiner's
got to do.
Let's face it,
it was a beautiful still site,
but we've got to move.
All right.
That's a pile of them
right yonder.
Henry, have you given
any thought to where
we're gonna put
these things at?
[henry] you know I have.
But I'll make sure
we get the right spot
-and everybody's
happy with this.
-[tickle] right.
If we ain't at the right spot,
ain't no sense in even
starting making liquor.
Before josh gets here
with all these strawberries,
we got to find someplace
else to put these things,
'cause when he gets here,
we need to mash 'em things in.
We can't have 'em going
bad on us before we can
even get them in the pot.
[henry]
a good quality still site,
that's what we want.
There's a lot of things
you got to look for.
The biggest thing is water.
Of course, the next thing
is seclusion.
Last year, it was very easy
to find still sites,
'cause nobody was out.
Now, everybody's out hiking,
everybody is out kayaking,
full willing.
You name it,
they're out doing it now,
especially now.
I tell you what.
That's a nice hole
of water right there, henry.
[tickle] we come up here
to the still site
that henry wants to show us
and tell you what,
this thing is looking good.
It's coming down
through the ice.
Ice cold, too.
[tickle]
there's a beautiful waterfall.
There's plenty of water
flowing through it,
and it tastes great.
You want to check out
down here,
a place to set the pots?
Yeah, let's do that.
All right.
[henry] a buddy of mine
owns the land.
He gave me permission to go
in there, check it out.
And, you know,
you've got to be able
to have these people
to trust you to come
onto their property,
make your liquor,
not trash your property up.
If not, you're not going
to get your sites.
-What do you think, henry?
-I think it looks good, man.
That waterfall's up there
about a 100 yards, we can
take gravity water.
The best part
about this still site,
it's on the backside
of a farm.
Take us four,
I thought maybe here,
right in the middle,
set the thumpers.
Take four more,
stretch them out
a little bit further.
We'll be able to back
right up here to the stills.
It's easy access, in and out.
Nobody's going
to be watching our traffic.
You know
what this site's missing?
-Some pots.
-I hear you, brother.
-Yes, sir.
-Well, get on with it.
Let's get on it.
Only one way
we're gonna get it done.
[dramatic music playing]
you know, these guys talk
to the county officers
and the state officers
on a daily basis,
so I'm sure
they've been updated
on our situation.
Oh, I'd almost bet on it.
I'm sure that
our local sheriff's department
knows the same thing now
that our police department
knows.
They know who we are,
they know what we drive,
they know where we live.
So the best thing to do,
we're gonna get
as far as we can
out of cocke county,
I believe.
We got to go far.
But I don't know where to go.
Places have been developed,
houses built,
I wonder if jb
knows any place.
He made liquor at a lot
of places with popcorn.
You wanna ride over
and see him?
I mean, if he don't,
we ain't lost nothing.
Jb, back in the day,
he spent a lot of time
in maggie valley,
north carolina,
back with popcorn.
They made a lot of liquor
in that area, and jb
is very familiar with it.
Jb, I'll tell you what,
he's looking better than
he's done a long time,
ain't he?
I think getting him
new teeth has helped him
out a lot.
What are we gonna do
if he ain't got
nowhere in mind?
Repeat after me.
You want fries with that?
We're gonna learn here
in just a minute
what jb might
or might not know.
[mark] hello there, jb rader!
[jb] hey!
[mark] how you doing, brother?
[jb] I'm doing damn good.
-[mark]
good to see you, brother.
-Yeah, good to see you.
Rader's my name,
liquor's my game.
-Yep.
-You look like
you're feeling awful good.
Best I've felt in years.
-He's a rutting buck.
-[laughs]
[mark] oh, yeah?
That's a good thing
for what we need.
Yep. We're... We're...
We're kind of up
a stump, jb.
-Are you?
-We got paid a visit
by the chief of police.
-Oh, hell.
-He put us on the road.
We need a new still site.
We know you spent a lot
of time on the other side
of the mountain over yonder.
Oh, yeah.
I know the other side
of the mountain real good.
We made a lot of runs up
and down the mountain,
but it's been so long.
I'm hoping
you still got it fresh
in your noggin.
Not too fresh, but I think
I can come up with it.
-You got anything to do?
-Nah.
Can you go with us
to scout a few places?
-Oh, yeah.
-Let's go do,
let's go do a little scout.
All right.
Let's do it.
[mark] we might even buy you
a hotdog while we're out.
[laid-back music playing]
-[mike] we lost
150 gallons of good liquor.
-[jerry] I know.
[mike] we can't afford
to lose our still
and everything else too.
But the damn law,
they're like a blue tick hound
they'll lay up
and wait on you, boy.
You see the dirt road going,
you see any tracks in it?
It's all growed up.
One good thing, I can hear
the damn birds
are chirping around.
You know, if you see
some animals down
and close...
There ain't nobody down there.
Let's get the truck,
get in here
and get this out of here
and get done with it.
[mike]
going back to the still site,
I mean, I'm as nervous
as a damn cat
in a room
full of rocking chairs.
Because it's like
a crime scene.
You go back to that bastard,
that's when 90%
of the time you get caught.
Let's just go for it.
Let's just get the damn
pot, the tanks and the stuff
that we need to use right now.
We got to get
the hell out of here.
We need to get and go
and be done with it.
Come on.
We're happy to see
that nobody's been here.
It looks safe.
But me and mike don't feel
safe right now, so we're going
to just pack up and move on.
[jerry grunts]
I don't feel real comfortable
about brewing liquor
in this area right now.
We know that somebody
has ratted us out
and we know that
the cops have been
to our stash house.
To me, that's just too
much heat in one area
to be hanging around.
I see nobody.
Huh!
I'm gonna make liquor,
but I don't know
where to do it at
at this present time.
Well, you may not be too keen
on it, but I got an idea.
I think we should go
over the mountain,
get closer back to my hometown
in north carolina.
I don't know a damn soul
over there.
That ain't my territory
You know,
sevier county in tennessee,
this is home to me.
This is where
we make the liquor.
I'm used to everything
and everybody around.
[sighs]
but there's a good possibility
the law knows exactly
who I am
and I really don't think
it'll be a smart move
to start our season off
right here
where we've been or even
in the same damn county.
You know, we've got to keep
our operation going,
that's for damn sure,
but, I mean...
I've got good contacts
over there.
-I don't know, man.
-Good sources of people
we can rely on.
But we ain't got
a hell of a lot of damn
more choices, do we?
If you know the contacts
and you know
people to get hold of
and that another, I mean,
hell, why not?
I'll do it.
You know, jerry being
from north carolina,
you know, he knows
those woods over there
as good as I know
these over here.
Maybe we can be
out of harm's way.
But I can tell you this,
we're not carrying the stills
we've got over here
across that damn mountain,
'cause when you go
across the state lines,
it becomes federal.
We'll go to north carolina,
but we've got to start
from the ground up, brother.
-[jerry] oh, yeah.
-[mike] get set up,
be good. Who knows?
[laid-back music playing]
did you fart?
God almighty, son!
[brian laughs]
you [bleep].
[bleep] damn.
I told henry I would get
some strawberries,
but I've called all around
from here to timbuktu,
and I kind of missed
the boat on it.
Colt called and says
he feels bad
about the strawberries,
but he's got lots
of other stuff
we might can use.
He ain't gonna be here,
so he just told us
to run in,
get the forklift,
run to the cooler,
get it out and rock and roll.
That's easy enough.
[josh]
henry, kenny and tickle,
they're moving the eight
submarine pots,
getting them all set up,
and we're gonna make lots
of brandy and stuff.
And with that being
said, it's gonna take
massive amounts of fruit.
All right.
There is the forklift there.
Come in here.
Heck yeah.
-[brian] it's nice.
-Look at all that.
My dad used
to make this recipe,
the true watermelon brandy
without using any sugar,
you know,
just using the fruit.
[brian] them babies are ripe.
[josh] so now that
we've got some watermelons,
I'm really wanting
to make this really high-end,
frickin' really good brandy.
[brian] that's awesome.
What's in the edibles barrel?
[josh] that one says
"non-edible."
[brian] oh.
[josh] it ain't pineapples,
but it's the cores
and they just...
All they do is core 'em
out and frickin'...
Is it sweet?
-Yeah, pretty good.
-Really?
That'll make
good moonshine then.
How are we gonna use this?
There's not even much meat
on there.
I know,
but there's still sugar
in that right there.
I haven't really heard about
a whole lot of other people
doing pineapples,
so I don't even know how
that's gonna turn out.
But it's important to me
to do things that other people
aren't really doing.
You want to load
the pineapples first,
so we can put them
on the back of the truck?
Yeah, you may have to ride
on that pallet
and hold that barrel
while we get out of here.
Why, you're going
to drive that fast?
Well, I might.
You ain't gonna be breaking
the sound barrier, are you?
[engine starts]
we hit the mother lode
on these watermelons.
We got a lot of fruit,
and one thing's for sure,
I'm gonna have to come up
with a way
to turn all this fruit
into pulp.
[brian] I'm gonna go
get the watermelons,
I'll be back.
So I'm thinking about,
just like a beer-can crusher,
you know,
but like a beer-can
crusher for fruit.
Oh, man,
watermelon goodness
right there,
that's gonna make some
good moonshine.
[laid-black music playing]
it's time you take
these little babies
out of here.
-[tickle] that's right.
-It's time to be
getting 'em moved.
[tickle] now that we
got our still site,
we've got to move out
of this still site
that we had these eight pots
in over the winter.
All right.
Josh, well,
he's coming with a bunch
of strawberries to mash in
and we need to be ready
when he gets here.
[engine rumbling]
hell!
She cranks up,
that's half the battle.
We've got
all these stills busted down
and in about an hour,
it's gonna be dark.
-There you go.
-That's good there.
[tickle] I see you, big boy.
It's there!
We'd be fools to run out
on the road with these stills
when it was daytime.
So, once the night comes,
we're gonna start
heading down the road
and I'm willing to bet
this is gonna take
all night.
[henry] I think what we need
to do is get moving
before it gets dark.
[tickle] we've got
our first two pots loaded up.
We're gonna have to do this
in shifts.
We don't have a semi-truck
like josh brought
these things over in,
so we're just going
to take them over
a couple at a time.
It's gonna take
several trips to get them all,
but being dark like this,
we'll get these things
over here
and won't have any problems.
[henry] well, I reckon
it's a good place as any.
All right. That's one.
These 800-gallon pots,
I mean,
these things are heavy.
They're built like a tank
and they weigh just as much.
But luckily,
we got experience on our side.
We know
how to move these things.
Let's go and grab two more.
[josh] damn,
why don't you just get...
Get in your lane, dude!
Damn!
Whoa, whoa, whoa!
Whoa!
[mark] man, this is damn
hallowed ground.
I'm still seeing some
gun dancing right there.
If there's a holy grail
of moonshine,
it's right here.
[josh] if we're gonna make
brandies and stuff,
it'd be great to have like
a ginormous beer-can crusher
to mash up all this fruit.
I've never thought about that.
It'll probably work.
[josh] but we're gonna go
over here to my buddy tooth
and we're gonna get
some metal and stuff.
He can fabricate anything.
If we can't find
what we need here,
there's something wrong.
Hey, what's up, fellas,
what's going on?
What y'all into?
Man, we're working
on a crazy-ass project
and we need some help.
Think you can help us out?
I'll see what I can do.
All right, tooth.
Now, I ain't no artist.
I can't sing
and I can't dance.
But let's just say
that somewhere in here,
I want a piece of metal
that stays there all the time,
and then I want
some kind of handle
that comes down to a plate.
And so when you move
this handle up and down,
it smashes this piece of metal
against this piece of metal
and then I want some sort of
way to capture the juice.
And that's the basic idea.
[tooth] okay.
I think we can come up
with what you want.
-Show me what you got.
-[tooth] so here's a piece
of plate that might work.
That's perfect right there.
You got two of them?
-I got two of these, for sure.
-Perfect.
Look here, josh.
Catch everything coming
out at the bottom.
[josh] that's good.
That's good.
That'll work perfect.
[tooth] so, I have a piece
of stainless pot,
might be about
three foot you can have.
What's something
like this cost?
You're looking
at about $1,100, $1,200
for what you need.
[josh] just for two
or three foot?
-[tooth] yeah.
-[josh] I can't afford that.
[tooth] I'll tell you what.
I'll hook you up
if you hook me up
when you get the product done.
How about that?
Hell yeah. Perfect.
[tooth] let's get
you boys loaded up.
Tooth has all the right stuff.
Heck yeah, man.
I can't tell you
how much this means to me.
[tooth] I'm just glad.
I can help you out.
[josh]
oh, you done hooked me up.
We came to the right place.
-Are you ready?
-Yeah.
One, two, three, go.
All right.
Well, now that we got
all our supplies, we need
to be going to virginia.
I owe you one, brother.
I'm really nervous showing up
with these watermelons
instead of the strawberries.
They're totally expecting
strawberries.
We got a really good operation
going right now,
and the last thing I want
to do is screw that up
in any way.
[instrumental music playing]
[henry] what do you think?
[tickle] what do you reckon,
kenny, all the way back
here to the back?
[kenny] all the way back.
We've got a huge task
in front of us.
Josh, he's coming with a bunch
of strawberries
for us to mash in
and we need to be ready
when he gets here.
We've got to set
eight pots today,
get all these blocks built up
that our stills
will actually sit on.
[henry] I'll tell you what,
me and kenny first met
tickle right here.
We had in our mind that
he was lazy, especially just
getting out of penitentiary.
We were dead wrong.
He's about as hard a worker
as you ever want one
in your life.
We take pride in what we do.
You can't just bring
eight pots in here
and just throw 'em up any way
you want to.
These still sites,
they need to be straight
in line with each other.
They need to be level
with each other.
The stills got a 2.5 inch
piece of wood for the sides.
If you move it over too far,
this damn block
will start pushing up
against that metal
and it'll warp that metal.
[kenny]
that should roll well, mate.
[henry] looks good, too.
[kenny] real good.
[tickle] you know,
this still site is absolutely
beautiful to me.
There's more pots right here
than most moonshiners
could ever hope to cook
through in their life.
Way back in the day,
people were putting
these still sites up
even bigger than this.
That's what made it
franklin county,
the moonshine capital
of the world.
And I'll tell you what,
this thing,
it's not only gonna
pump out moonshine,
it's gonna pump out money.
You know
what we need now, right?
-Yeah.
-You gotta have some water.
We can't do nothing else
till we get 'em.
It's time for the next part
of our operation.
If we don't get water,
we ain't gonna have nothing.
-This stuff gets wet,
it gets heavy.
-[henry] yeah, it's heavy.
We're gonna be using
gravity water.
When you find water
and it's uphill
from your still site,
what that does is,
it takes the weight
and the volume of that water
and transfers it to power.
It's just gonna be
real silent.
We won't have no noisy pump
giving our location away.
Oh, yeah.
Now she's got some force
behind her.
Okay.
Hook another line
to the end of that
and we keep on getting it.
I never had to worry
about a pump.
Never had to worry
about gasoline.
Gravity water, brother.
Well, we finally got
everything set up that
we need in our still site
and we got it before
josh got here.
He should be pulling around
any darn time.
This truckload of strawberries
he's bringing us,
can't wait.
[instrumental music playing]
[josh] I'm on my way
to virginia.
Last time we were here,
we were making
grain moonshine.
I made all these stills
for making brandies,
and all we got to do
was run grain
till the end of the year.
I'm really looking forward
to getting back up there,
where I could get
those stills rolling again
and start cooking down
some of this fruit.
You know, brian could be
my right-hand man
when I'm in town,
but most of my work
is gonna be in virginia
and he's gonna be
coming back and forth.
He's got a good grading job
that he just can't let go.
I know henry,
kenny and tickle,
they're expecting
strawberries.
I might not have a darn
trailer load of strawberries,
but I got a trailer load
of watermelons.
Hopefully, these guys will go
for it when I get here.
I got a plan to make
some watermelon moonshine,
we're gonna call it
green lizard.
This watermelon moonshine
recipe goes back
hundreds of damn years.
Back then, they didn't have
the sugar to add to it.
They made
some high-end brandy,
they just might not have got
a big yield out of it,
or a big return.
My dad and my buddy tony
used to make this stuff
all the time
and that's how I know
about it.
Super excited
to try this recipe out.
Make something that
these guys
ain't never seen before.
I guarantee you
it'll make you do
the watermelon crawl.
Damn, what's this guy...
Get in your lane, dude!
Damn!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Whoa! God almighty!
Ah, son of a bitch!
Ah, goddamn!
So you just put that
on there, lock it,
and then you got to wrap
that wire around.
Josh owens,
the moonshiner necklace-maker.
I'm not a necklace-maker, man.
You got enough sea turtles
here to make you
another necklace.
I got that stuff for reese.
Oh, no, I think I might have
to call reese after a while
and ask her
if she likes sea turtles
or does dad like sea turtles?
[laughs]
and I'm pretty sure I know
what she's gonna say.
-[josh] oh, yeah.
-"those are dad's."
[josh] "yeah,
those are dad's."
I'm all about it. I love it.
[brian] oh, it's so beautiful.
Put it on. Let me see.
Is it a choker?
You're making
fun of me right now,
that's embarrassing me.
Seriously.
-[laughs]
-I will kill y'all.
That's gonna look great.
[josh] damn,
why don't you just get...
Get in your lane, dude!
Damn!
Whoa, whoa, whoa, whoa!
Whoa! God almighty!
Ah, goddamn!
Son of a bitch, burn it down!
This is a mess.
Damn, we lost pineapple too.
I'm on the road
and all of a sudden
this van just damn
starts coming over
into my lane.
Think this guy
was on the phone
or something,
I'm not really sure,
but if I hadn't been
paying attention,
it'd have been
a head-on collision
and the watermelons
wouldn't have mattered.
Thankfully, only a few
of the watermelons busted.
I frickin' damn salvaged
what I could
of the watermelons,
pushed the boxes up
on the trailer.
What the hell is that
stuck on?
[grunts wearily]
now what am I going
to do about this?
It's split right apart.
They're not supposed
to do that.
Maybe there's some tape
in the truck.
[breathes heavily]
ah!
Ninety-mile-an-hour high-speed
duct tape right there, buddy.
One thing's for sure.
My name's
not good luck chuck.
Never in a million years
would I have thought I'd have
to strap those things down.
When things go right,
it's almost odd.
I really started noticing this
about the time
I cut my fingers off.
Every time I started to feel
like I'm hitting a home run,
I needed to go get
in a bulletproof room
or something because
[bleep] about to hit the fan.
[exhales sharply]
golly, look at that.
I can't believe
that it took these things
busting all over the highway
for me to taste one.
God, that is sweet!
That is the best watermelon
I've had in years.
That'll taste almost the same
when we turn it into whiskey.
And juicy, look at that.
Yeah!
That is gonna make
some good whiskey.
But now, we're gonna
go to virginia.
[instrumental music playing]
damn, it'd be awful
to go to penitentiary
this late
in our lives, wouldn't it?
Oh, hell, yeah.
Oh, I'm way too purdy.
-You're way too purdy, digger.
-[laughs]
I'll become
a victim immediately.
Oh, yeah.
You know, after our little
visit from the police,
our plan is to go
across the state lines,
go across the mountain,
get over in there
somewhere in north carolina.
You know, popcorn had
a lot of haunts over there
that he frequented,
and jb claims
that he remembers
where we need to go
over there.
It's starting to get less
and less populated, ain't it?
-Oh, yeah.
-[digger] we'll let him
lead the way, I'll pilot,
he'll navigate and we'll see
if we can't get there.
There's the last
line on electric here.
-Yeah.
-That pole right
there deadens it.
From here on out,
there ain't no electricity.
-[jb] yeah.
-I like that idea.
Oh, yeah.
-[mark] damn, jb.
-[jb] yeah.
We get a flat tire
or broke down back in here,
we'll have to walk
47 miles to get out.
[jb speaking]
[digger] I don't want
to get over here close
to the edge and look off.
Hell no.
[jb speaking]
-[mark] jb?
-[jb] yeah.
[mark] where the hell
are you going
with this goat trail?
[jb speaking]
[mark]
there's one thing about it,
if we do end up here,
there ain't nobody going
to bother.
Normally,
we feel more safe at home,
but right now,
we're under the microscope.
And under these circumstances,
I'm gonna feel a little better
up in the mountains
in north carolina.
[mark] you know
where we're going
or are you guessing?
I know where I'm going.
Well, it gets
a little better now.
[digger] it's hard to tell
at this point
whether jb's covering
for his lack of remembrance
or does he have something
up his sleeve.
Well, I will be damned.
[mark] are you teasing me?
I swear cold chills
just run all over me, jb.
[laughs]
[jb] I'm taking you
to the shrine, boys.
[mark] oh, my gosh.
This is where you
and popcorn sutton
made his last brandy.
[digger] ain't that something.
I never thought
we'd be up here thinking
about making liquor.
[mark] jb rader.
Man, this is damn
hallowed ground.
I still see sutton
dancing up there.
If there's a holy grail
of moonshine, it's right here.
[narrator] next time
on moonshiners...
[mike] way up
on the mountain up there.
We just crossed over
into north carolina.
We've got to build
something new.
Oh! Oh, god!
You're gonna do
what I'm doing,
for a while there
it reminds you of being
a teenager again.
The recipe that jb wants
is all corn and no sugar.
Get that worked in.
This is insane.
No, it's science!
That's the biggest damn
green strawberry I've ever
seen in my life, josh.
This is only gonna make
one still full of mash.
So what we're gonna do
is go back down to one
of our old still sites
and we're gonna run this
green lizard there.
It won't be long.
[indistinct shouting]